# CS-360-project

I built an inventory tracking application for this project. This app needed to have a screen to display a list of all inventory item. The list needed to include the name of the item and the quantity of the item. The app needed a mechanism for increasing and decreasing the quantity of inventory items, a mechanism for deleting and editing the item like changing the item name or quantity. The app also needed a screen that was used for logging a user in or creating a screen. To fulfill these requirements I create a screen for the inventory list, a login/create account screen and an add/edit screen. I also created a dialog that handled increasing and decreasing the item quantity as well as deleting the item. The dialog also held a button that when click opened the add/edit screen with the items name and quantity populating the corresponding editText fields. The approach I took when developing this application was to first design the user interface so that all requirements from the users perspective were displayed. While building the user interface I created a temporary back end that would populate the inventory screen with dummy data. This dummy data was supplied to the UI via LiveData so that when creating the Room database it was very easy to integrate the front end with the back end. To test this application I manually tested it myself and I was able to identify a few issues with creating an account, signing in and adding new data. While testing those components I discovered that I didn’t have functionality to handle blank data. The component of this application that I am particularly proud of is the inventory item detail dialog box. When designing the wireframe for the user interface I had a difficult time deciding where to put the edit, delete, increase and decrease buttons. If all of these buttons where included with the inventory item card it would look very clutter and there may have been issues when users tried pressing any of these buttons. I decided that rather than have these buttons on each item card I should have them available only when the user presses the desired card. At first I was going to have a new screen appear when pressing the card but realized that changing the quantity of an item should not change the focus of the app by changing screens. Doing so would be annoying and frustrating to a user especially when a card was press by mistake. So I decided to use a custom dialog fragment which allows the user to get access to all the buttons quickly without changing focus. And if the press a card by mistake the could just press out of the dialog box and they would be able to see all inventory items again .
